In this video we'll learn about how the ESX host finds out about the ones that are available on the
storage right.
And with eyes because we have a method called Dynamic discovery that it can use to learn about the ones
that are being presented to it by the storage array.
So the first step of this process is to configure our ESX host with an IP address.
We want to provide the host the IP address of the storage array so that it will have the ability to
query the storage array.
And this is called the scuzzy target.
So notice on our ESX host side we have now this black box that's appeared and it specified the ICRC
target is 10 not one not one to 10 which is the IP address of the storage processor on the array.
Right so what we're telling our ESX I hosed is when we do a rescanned reach out to the storage array
and discover new lines.
Right and that's what a rescan operation does in the ESX I host it generates what's called a send target's
request.
And this is basically a request from the ESX I host saying Tell me about your Lund's.
Would you have available what ones can I use to create a vm a fast data store and the storage array
will respond with this and Target's response which is essentially just a listing of its Lund's Here's
all the ones that I now have available.
So now the ESX host has a list of basically chunks of an formatted disk space.
Right.
That's what these lines are.
These are big chunks of disk space that are available to it that it can connect to and that it can format
with VM fs so that it can store virtual machine files on them.
Right.
And any loans that are currently in use will be automatically filtered out.
So there's something called Storage filters in the ESX host and it won't actually present you lawn's
that are already in use.
So if I now decide hey I want to create a new VM a fast data store and I look at my listing of available
ones it's only going to show me the ones that don't currently have a data store created on that
one more side note.
And this is a good thing to remember for the exam.
You can configure chap authentication with ice Gazi.
So what you can do is you can configure even mutual authentication.
And the purpose of chap is basically when the ESX host wants to connect to the eyes because the storage
are right it has to send what's called a chap secret basically a password to the scuzzy array.
Right.
And that way the I scuzz the storage array can validate that yes this ESX I host is legitimate.
It's not some fake host that somebody spinning up and then you can also require the scuzzy array to
actually authenticate with the ESX I host as well.
This is called mutuel chap authentication and it's a security tool that basically allows the host and
the storage array to validate that both of those devices are legitimate devices that should be paired
up with.
This is the only storage solution that supports chap authentication.
So that's an important item to keep in mind as you prepare to take your certification exam.